Notes for North Texas Council of RR Clubs (Council)

For each season, do the following:
1. update hours and schedules per the Board and club requests. Honor club change requests if feasible. Remember editing hours for any club affects many other clubs.
2. generate a proposed schedule using the Club sheet, print all clubs. Get approval from the council clubs.
3. generate the season schedule and make available to web master. the full release includes:
a. club schedules
b. day schedules for all 6 days. (Manual print for each day)

4. The (red) signup book should have the following: 
a. schedule for each day of next show. Select signup sheet. in cell A1, select date. Select 'print all of this day'.
b. Club schedules (one per season)
c. Club list showing club list with names and ID.
d. door prize donation form for donor taxes.
 NOTE: each show should have schedules for that show's three days. January show sign-ins replace the fall sign-ins after the fall show. 
 Club and 'Signin' sheets are the main print output for the spreadsheet each season.



The ShowTasks.xlmm Excel spreadsheet is used to manage and print the schedule for the train show season.
One fall show (FALL) and one winter show (DAT)
The exact dates are set each year by the council reserving dates with the venue, currently the Plano Convention Center.
Notes on data in the workbook: Lots of data items are shared in named cells, such as "Season". You change the master cell and all other locations that use this text are automatically updated. To find where the named cell is located, under formulas tab, select name manager. Then select a name and click on the bottom in the 'refers to' box to show the cell with that name.
Note just cell references are used, inside macros name cell data is used on processing reports. Too many to list, but be careful editing cells with names, as you may break a macro running on another sheet. 

Tasks are of two types, Show and Preshow.
Show hours are worked by club members during the show. These are allocated in one hour blocks on the day sheets. (I.e., Fall Friday,...)
Pre-show hours are allocated on the S.O.A page in the preshow sections. 
Show hour allocation:
There are 6 show hour sheets, Fall and DAT, Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
Unused hours are shown in Dark Grey.
Each cell will be either grey (Unused) or have a club ID (Abbreviation)
The Symbol column on Participants page includes the club ID and an optional color code for each club.
When you open a sheet, a macro automatically checks ALL CLUB ID values against the Participants list, updates the cell colors from the ID list, and highlights an unknown value.

Changing a cell value, such as SC to TRD, will do the following:
1. update the hours allocated to both clubs, 
2. update the statistics on Participants sheet for both clubs
3. update S.O.A. and Matrix statistics

Pre-show allocation:
These hours are updated on the S.O.A. sheet in the pre-show sections.
editing pre-show hours here will change hours assigned in the Participants sheet calculations.


Report generation
Go to the print option in the Excel File menu and change output printer to PDF output. This A. reduces the amount of paper wasted, B. is the output format passed on to the webmaster for publication. Note that the schedule macros output to the ..\Print folder as PDF. IF you do not set the print format as PDF, the files generated have issues.
Reports are generated by clicking on a button on various pages. The following list has the sheet and report name. Several sheets have more than one report button.
Participants: Print Club List -- This does a partial print of the participants sheet data. All club information is included except the total statistics.
Participants: Print Shares List -- This only shows club name and share allocated.
Club: Print Schedule -- change the club abbreviation in cell C3 to update the data below to match the club show hours, then click Print Schedule to print the current page.
Club: Print All Club Schedules.-- this prints a page for each club included in the Participants page. (The PDF version is published on the council website.)
Print to PDF each day schedule (I.E., DAT Saturday) and save to print folder.
SignInSHeet: Print this page -- Select the day in the dropdown box at C3, and the hour from the dropdaown box at H3, then click print this page for a specific day signup page.
SignInSheet: Print All This Day -- Select the day from C3, then click this button to print signup pages for each hour of this day.
These 4 pages have the same buttons available :: Print and New Hours. Not used as included in signup for each day.
HTS SHow Mgr: New Hours -- Updates the page data
HTS SHow Mgr: Print -- Prints the current data
HTS Asst SHow Mgr:
DAT SHow MGR:
DAT Asst SHow MGR:
Summaries " recommend using Legal size paper (or PDF) for these reports."
Summaries: Print All -- prints all 4 reports at the same time, Fall preshow, Fall show, DAT preshow, DAT show.



Scrap sheet
Lots of values used elsewhere are concentrated on this sheet.
Row and columns define the active data cells for each day sheet.
Matrix defines size of sections included in the Summaries report generation
DaySheetsCheckNames controls whether opening a day sheet validated all the IDs and updates statistics.
Print folders are at the bottom of the page.

Debug:
If you remove or bugger up a named cell, you will get a macro error dialog, Selecting debug will open the macro editor at the location of the error, letting you see the area of the issue.
See developer tab for more options.

